1. What is the benefit of learning Javascript?

A. Javascript is ubiquitous in web development. It is used by the browser to interact with HTML and can even be used for backend development with engines like Node.js

2. What type of applications can be built with Javascript? 

A. Web app UI, Backend servers, native mobile apps with React Native, and native desktop applications using electron. 

3. Which programming language is good for beginners to learn (according to Michael's perspectives)?

A. None of them, focus on the 5 core building blocks.

4. Which programming language is not good for beginners to learn, as their first language (according to Michael's perspectives)?

A. Ruby, it abstracts too much fundamental concepts that a beginner must know and master first. It is used by experienced developers who already know fundamentals in order to speed up development time.

5. Study how the 5 core building blocks are implemented from one language to another.  What are your observations?  Are they similar?  Different?  Which of these programming languages are you already familiar with?

A. 
Variable initialization - Javascript, PHP, python, and ruby are dynamically typed. Meaning you do not have to declare the type of the variable, it can be inferred later. For C++ and Java however, typing is static. 
If/else statements - they're all quite similar, except python and ruby use indentations for scoping, and ruby has an additional end keyword to end the conditional chain.
Loops - javascript, php, c++, and java all follow strict iterator initilization, condition, and incrementation formats while Python and Ruby have ranges. Python's stop however is exclusive while Ruby's is inclusive.
Functions - C++ and Java require specified return types.
OOP - JS classes aren't real classes, they work via prototypes. C++, Java, and PHP have strict encapsulation requirements, and python uses dynamic classes in its inheritance model.

6. Anything else you've learned as you've read these articles and pondered about your situation?

A. Yes, I learned that practicing by being given a snippet of code and predicting the output is a good way to learn.
